---
toc: false
comments: false
layout: post
title: Innovation, CPT Project
description: Innovation requirements for the Create Performance Task
type: ccc
courses: { csp: {week: 17} }
---

{% include nav_cpt.html %}

## Innovation Week, Create Performance Task Objectives

Students and teams will soon ***transition to "Create Performance Task" projects***.  At that transition, time will be allocated toward coding of this task.  Additionally, you will use this project in Trimester 2 N@tM presentations.  

Before that time, you will plan youand code a warm-up project using the Create Performance Task requirements.

### Teacher requirement for N@tM project

These requirements are in addition to CPT requirements.  These elements have enabled student to score well and answer CPT questions.

- styling frontend with SASS
- creating frontend for CRUD operations
- learning more about APIs connecting to Database Tables
- supporting backend Databases CRUD actions and OOP

These requirements provide depth for students projects, the type of depth that will enable you to score well and also be ready for Computer Science internships.

- add user login and site security
- have features to upload, scale, and store images
- design frontend pages with animation and OOP
- support complex SQL data types to support images and JSON
- support primary and foreign key relations in SQL

Teams will start projects with Design Documents.  Performing these tasks will help students work more effectively in teams.

- Use tools to design screens before implementation
- Use draw.io to do [story mapping and test planning](https://www.drawio.com/blog/story-mapping)
- Use draw.io to create [uml activity](https://drawio-app.com/blog/create-uml-activity-diagrams-in-draw-io/)
- Use draw.io to create [uml class](https://drawio-app.com/blog/uml-class-diagrams-in-draw-io/) 0r Use draw.io to draw [entity relationship diagram](https://drawio-app.com/blog/entity-relationship-diagrams-with-draw-io/)

### College Board requirements for CPT

Groups in Create Performance task can be 1-4 people can work on a project, but everyone must have their own features that meet all the College Board requirements.

- [CPT Requirements](https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/courses/ap-computer-science-principles/exam)

#### Program Design, Function, and Purpose

Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their program that assess any of the following learning objectives:

- CRD-2.A: Describe the purpose of a computing innovation.  
- CRD-2.B: Explain how a program or code segment functions.  
- CRD-2.C: Identify input(s) to a program.
- CRD-2.D: Identify output(s) produced by a program.
- CRD-2.E: Develop a program using a development process.
- CRD-2.F: Design a program and its user interface.
- CRD-2.G: Describe the purpose of a code segment or program by writing documentation.

#### Algorithm Development

Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their program that assess any of the following learning objectives:

- CRD-2.B: Explain how a program or code segment functions.
- AAP-2.E.b: Evaluate expressions that use relational operators (<, >, ==, etc).
- AAP-2.F.b: Evaluate expressions that use logic operators (and, or, not).
- AAP-2.H.b: Determine the result of conditional statements.
- AAP-2.J: Express an algorithm that uses iteration without using a programming language.
- AAP-2.K.b: Determine the result or side effect of iteration statements.
- AAP-2.L: Compare multiple algorithms to determine if they yield the same side effect or result.
- AAP-2.M.a: Create algorithms.
- AAP-2.M.b: Combine and modify existing algorithms.

#### Errors and Testing  

Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their program that assess any of the following learning objectives:

- CRD-2.I.a: Identify the error.
- CRD-2.I.b: Correct the error.
- CRD-2.J: Identify inputs and corresponding expected outputs or behaviors that can be used to check the correctness of an algorithm or program.

#### Data and Procedural Abstraction

Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their program that assess any of the following learning objectives:  

- AAP-1.D.a: Develop data abstraction using lists to store multiple elements.  
- AAP-1.D.b: Explain how the use of data abstraction manages complexity in program code.  
- AAP-2.O.a: Write iteration statements to traverse a list.
- AAP-2.O.b: Determine the result of an algorithm that includes list traversals.  
- AAP-3.B: Explain how the use of procedural abstraction manages complexity in a program.
  