---
toc: false
comments: false
layout: post
title: Innovation, CPT Project
permalink: /cpt/home
description: Innovation requirements for the Create Performance Task
type: collab
courses: { csp: {week: 13} }
---

{% include nav_cpt.html %}

## Innovation Week, Create Performance Task Objectives

Students and teams will ***transition to "Create Performance Task" projects***.  Class time will be allocated toward coding of this task.  Additionally, you will use this project in Trimester 2 N@tM presentations.  

Plan your Create Performance Task with Classroom Requirements.

- During this time individuals will be ...
  - styling frontend with SASS
  - creating frontend for CRUD operations
  - learning more about APIs connecting to Database Tables
  - supporting backend Databases CRUD actions and OOP

- As we get deeper in the trimester...
  - add user login and site security
  - have features to upload, scale, and store images
  - design frontend pages with animation and OOP
  - support complex SQL data types to support images and JSON
  - support primary and foreign key relations in SQL

- Teams will start project with Design Documents.  There will be lectures to support.
  - Use tools to design screens before implementation
  - Use draw.io to create work flow diagram
  - Use draw.io to plan data diagram

Plan your Create Performance Task with College Board requirements.

- Groups in Create Performance task can be 1-4 people can work on a project, but everyone must have their own features that meet all the College Board requirements.
- [CPT Requirements](https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/courses/ap-computer-science-principles/exam)

Program Design, Function, and Purpose

- Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their program that assess any of the following learning objectives:  
  - CRD-2.A: Describe the purpose of a computing innovation.  
  - CRD-2.B: Explain how a program or code segment functions.  
  - CRD-2.C: Identify input(s) to a program.
  - CRD-2.D: Identify output(s) produced by a program.
  - CRD-2.E: Develop a program using a development process.
  - CRD-2.F: Design a program and its user interface.
  - CRD-2.G: Describe the purpose of a code segment or program by writing documentation.

Algorithm Development

- Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their program that assess any of the following learning objectives:  
  - CRD-2.B: Explain how a program or code segment functions.
  - AAP-2.E.b: Evaluate expressions that use relational operators (<, >, ==, etc).
  - AAP-2.F.b: Evaluate expressions that use logic operators (and, or, not).
  - AAP-2.H.b: Determine the result of conditional statements.
  - AAP-2.J: Express an algorithm that uses iteration without using a programming language
  - AAP-2.K.b: Determine the result or side effect of iteration statements.
  - AAP-2.L: Compare multiple algorithms to determine if they yield the same side effect or result.
  - AAP-2.M.a: Create algorithms.
  - AAP-2.M.b: Combine and modify existing algorithms.

Errors and Testing  

- Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their program that assess any of the following learning objectives:  
  - CRD-2.I.a: Identify the error.
  - CRD-2.I.b: Correct the error.
  - CRD-2.J: Identify inputs and corresponding expected outputs or behaviors that can be used to check the correctness of an algorithm or program.

Data and Procedural Abstraction

- Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their program that assess any of the following learning objectives:  
  - AAP-1.D.a: Develop data abstraction using lists to store multiple elements.  
  - AAP-1.D.b: Explain how the use of data abstraction manages complexity in program code.  
  - AAP-2.O.a: Write iteration statements to traverse a list.
  - AAP-2.O.b: Determine the result of an algorithm that includes list traversals.  
  - AAP-3.B: Explain how the use of procedural abstraction manages complexity in a program.
  